If you’d open your Bibles to Romans 12:1,
we’ll note that the apostle Paul,
as has been commented on,
talks about reasoning on matters.
That’s Romans 12:1, it says:
“Therefore, I appeal to you
by the compassions of God, brothers,
“to present your bodies
as a living sacrifice,
“holy and acceptable to God,
a sacred service
with your power of reason.”
Ah, so Paul says reasoning has power to it.
A synonym for power is influence.
And so if you reason something out,
you’ll be influenced to make
the proper decision, basically.
Now, he also introduced
something else in our text today.
Let’s go there.
It’s 2 Thessalonians chapter 2,
and we’ll read verses 1 and 2:
“However, brothers,
“concerning the presence
of our Lord Jesus Christ
“and our being gathered together to him,
“we ask you not to be
quickly shaken from your reason
“nor to be alarmed
either by an inspired statement
“or by a spoken message
or by a letter appearing to be from us,
to the effect
that the day of Jehovah is here.”
So he introduces this aspect
of being quickly shaken
once you come to a conclusion on a matter
after reasoning it out.
Now, he says don’t be quickly shaken
once you come to a conclusion of the matter
as a result of reasoning the matter out.
And that’s what he was telling
the Thessalonica congregation here.
In the first letter,
he had talked about and warned them
that Jehovah’s day was imminent
and that it was coming,
and as a result,
some in the congregation went beyond that,
saying that it was here.
In fact, as verse 2 says,
there apparently was even a letter
that appeared to be from Paul
and saying that it’s not that it’s coming
—Jehovah’s day is here.
And so some got sidetracked
as a result of not thinking it through,
and their faith was shaken, apparently.
And then as you continue,
Paul then helped them
to reason further that no,
there are other things
that have to happen before Jehovah’s day.
So we’d like to talk about this matter
of quickly being shaken
—that is our faith.
It’s important because we spend years
developing a relationship with Jehovah God
and developing a solid faith,
and just this idea that Paul introduces
that one’s faith can be quickly shaken
is a rather disconcerting thought.
It can happen to any of us, really.
I just think about Judas Iscariot, right?
John 6:64 says
that from the beginning Jesus knew
who was the one who would betray him
—from the beginning.
From the beginning of what?
The Insight book says:
“‘From the beginning’
of when Judas started to go bad,
started to give in to imperfection
and sinful inclinations.”
Well, how long did that process take?
Well, it was less than a year
from the time he was appointed as an apostle.
Now, we know his appointment
was no mistake.
So within that short period of time,
this man went from an apostle
to an apostate.
That’s why it’s such good counsel
that Paul gave
for us not to be quickly shaken
from matters that we have established
as a result of good reasoning.
Now, there are times
that we’re more susceptible
to our faith
being quickly shaken than others.
And I’d like to talk
about that for just a moment.
What could some of those times be?
Well, it could be
when we’re going through stress,
depression, or anxiety.
The March 1, 2010, Watchtower,
makes this comment:
“Judgment may be clouded
when one is under great emotional stress.”
Now let me give you an example
—hypothetical, but here’s an example—
a brother has a deep relationship
with his parents;
his mother suddenly dies.
This is a great emotional blow to him;
he slips into a mild depression,
and as a result, his personal study
and his spiritual activities slow down.
Then a short time later,
a sibling is disfellowshipped.
This crushes him; he can’t sleep.
He wakes up; he gets to the computer;
he turns it on,
and he slips into watching
something inappropriate.
Now, what’s just happened?
Well, his good reasoning ability was shaken.
It’s of note
that the November 15, 1992, Watchtower,
puts it this way:
“Severe and prolonged mental depression
“may have worn away
“some of the person’s normally
strong emotional fiber
or may have made it extremely difficult
to make wise decisions.”
So, what could the brother have done?
Well, when he first recognized
this mild depression
or slipping from the spiritual activities,
it would have been good for him to get
someone to help him identify the cause.
Now, what is another circumstance
that could quickly shake our faith
if we’re not on guard?
Well, it has to do with the apostates.
Now, there is something
that the apostates are talking about
and trying to put forward.
The media has picked it up;
others have also picked it up.
And that is our Scriptural position
of having a two-witnesses requirement
for judicial action
if there is no confession.
Now, if you open your Bibles
to Deuteronomy 19:15,
our good reasoning is pretty solid on this.
At Deuteronomy 19:15,
the scripture is very, very clear.
It says:
“No single witness may convict another
“for any error or any sin that he may commit.
“On the testimony of two witnesses
“or on the testimony of three witnesses
the matter should be established.”
It’s very clear, isn’t it?
You cannot establish
a judicial committee based on one witness.
But now, listen,
here’s what they say:
“Well now, look,
the Old Testament
“also says that adulteresses
should be stoned.
“Now, since you’re not doing that,
why do you stick
to this two-witness rule?”
You see, if you’re not careful,
that can do some tricks on your mind
because you have to think it through.
Well, how might we do that?
Well, we go to Matthew 18:16
because obviously Christ Jesus
established the Christian arrangement,
and notice what he said.
Matthew 18:16, he says:
“But if he does not listen,
take along with you one or two more,
“so that on the testimony
of two or three witnesses
every matter may be established.”
So Christ Jesus establishes the fact
that there has to be two witnesses.
Now, it doesn’t mean
that if there is only one witness
that there are no consequences.
There might be,
depending upon the situation,
but the Scriptures are very clear.
Before a judicial committee can be convened,
there has to be a confession
or two witnesses,
so we will never change
our Scriptural position on that subject.
Jehovah has given us the ability
to reason things out, to think it through.
So let’s do our part
and not allow our faith
to be quickly shaken.
Then we can have
the confidence that Paul spoke of
at 2 Thessalonians 3:5 when he said:
“May the Lord continue to guide
your hearts successfully
to the love of God
and to the endurance for the Christ.”